What is JavaScript: use JS module instead of async/defer/DOMContentLoaded (#34937)
mdn/content: files/en-us/learn/javascript/first_steps/what_is_javascript/index.md

### Script loading strategies

All the HTML on a page is loaded in the order in which it appears.
If you are using JavaScript to manipulate elements on the page (or more accurately, the [Document Object Model](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Manipulating_documents#the_document_object_model)), your code won't work if the JavaScript is loaded and parsed before the HTML you are trying to do something to.

There are a few different strategies to make sure your JavaScript only runs after the HTML is parsed:

- In the internal JavaScript example above, the script element is placed at the bottom of the body of the document, and therefore only run after the rest of the HTML body is parsed.

> - In the external JavaScript example above, the script element is placed in the head of the document, before the HTML body is parsed. But because we're using `<script type="module">`, the code is treated as a [module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) and the browser waits for all HTML to be processed before executing JavaScript modules.

Author: Should we add a sentence here?

```suggestion
- In the external JavaScript example above, the script element is placed in the head of the document, before the HTML body is parsed. But because we're using `<script type="module">`, the code is treated as a [module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) and the browser waits for all HTML to be processed before executing JavaScript modules. (You could also place external scripts at the bottom of the body. But if there is a lot of HTML and a slow network, it takes a lot of time before the browser can start loading the script, so placing external scripts in the head is usually better.)
```

### Script loading strategies

All the HTML on a page is loaded in the order in which it appears.
If you are using JavaScript to manipulate elements on the page (or more accurately, the [Document Object Model](/en-US/docs/Learn/JavaScript/Client-side_web_APIs/Manipulating_documents#the_document_object_model)), your code won't work if the JavaScript is loaded and parsed before the HTML you are trying to do something to.

There are a few different strategies to make sure your JavaScript only runs after the HTML is parsed:

- In the internal JavaScript example above, the script element is placed at the bottom of the body of the document, and therefore only run after the rest of the HTML body is parsed.

- In the external JavaScript example above, the script element is placed in the head of the document, before the HTML body is parsed. But because we're using `<script type="module">`, the code is treated as a [module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) and the browser waits for all HTML to be processed before executing JavaScript modules.

> - Before browsers supported JavaScript modules, placing a script element in the head of the document could block the whole HTML of the page from displaying before the script was loaded. So we had to add `defer` and `async` attributes on the {{htmlelement("script")}} element, and then that could cause errors when the JavaScript was run but the HTML was not parsed yet. So we had to use the [DOMContentLoaded event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/DOMContentLoaded_event). But unless you need to support very old browsers, don't do this, and simply use `<script type="module>` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Non-module scripts in the document head could block the whole page from displaying before the script is loaded, so we have to add the `defer` and `async` attributes on the {{htmlelement("script")}} element. Furthermore, the errors caused by running JavaScript before the HTML is parsed remains, so we have to use the [`DOMContentLoaded` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/DOMContentLoaded_event). But unless you need to support very old browsers, you don't have to do this and can just use `<script type="module>` instead.
```

Author: Right, present tense is better of course. But the `Furthermore` is not exactly right, as the adding of the `defer` or `async` attribute actually causes the problem of the HTML not being parsed yet, right? What about:

```suggestion
- Non-module scripts in the document head could block the whole page from displaying before the script is loaded, so we have to add the `defer` or `async` attributes on the {{htmlelement("script")}} element. But this can result in the JavaScript running before the HTML is parsed, so we have to use the [`DOMContentLoaded` event](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/DOMContentLoaded_event). Unless you need to support very old browsers, you don't have to do this and can just use `<script type="module>` instead.
```

- In the internal JavaScript example above, the script element is placed at the bottom of the body of the document, and therefore only run after the rest of the HTML body is parsed.
- In the external JavaScript example above, the script element is placed in the head of the document, before the HTML body is parsed. But because we're using `<script type="module">`, the code is treated as a [module](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Guide/Modules) and the browser waits for all HTML to be processed before executing JavaScript modules. (You could also place external scripts at the bottom of the body. But if there is a lot of HTML and the network is slow, it may take a lot of time before the browser can even start fetching and loading the script, so placing external scripts in the head is usually better.)
- If you still want to use non-module scripts in the document head, which could block the whole page from displaying, and could cause errors because it executes before the HTML is parsed:

  - For external scripts, you should add the `defer` and `async` attributes on the {{htmlelement("script")}} element.

>   - For internal scripts, you should wrap the code in a [`DOMContentLoaded` event listener](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document/DOMContentLoaded_event).

Author: I thought this at first as well, but actually you need the DOMContentLoaded for external scripts as well, right? Because if it's blocking executing there, by definition the HTML isn't loaded yet.

Reviewer: Once you add `defer` it should only execute after HTML is loaded.

Author: Ah right, if you have `defer` as well.
